School Name: UC Berkeley
Department: Architecture
Major: Architecture

About the Program
Bachelor of Arts (BA)

Berkeley's undergraduate program in Architecture leads to the bachelor of arts (BA) degree. The program combines required courses in environmental design and architecture with opportunities for highly varied individual programs. Through its core courses, the program offers a broad introduction to the field of architecture, and through studies in the various areas it provides opportunities to prepare for specialization in the field in the areas of architectural design and representation; architectural technologies and building performance; and architectural history, society and culture. In addition to offering a sound and well-rounded education, undergraduate studies can also provide pre-professional competency for entry-level employment in architecture, the option for graduate work in architecture, or further studies in a related environmental design field.

Graduates go on to obtain professional degrees in architecture or in other related fields; many others work in architectural practice, construction, government, or industry. Employment opportunities exist also at the community level, particularly in those communities that traditionally have not been served by professional architectural practice. The overall aim of the undergraduate program is to establish a strong foundation for a range of careers and to provide for mobility and flexibility to suit changing individual opportunities.

Course of Study Overview

All undergraduates follow the same path through their junior year. In the first two years, students take a breadth of lower division courses and the introductory environmental design courses. The junior year is architecture-intensive. In the fall semester, students take a design studio and a history and humanities option. In the spring, the required courses include another studio, a course in history, and a technology option.

Program Tracks

During the spring semester of the junior year, students choose either a design research track or a studio track for the senior year.

Design/Research Track: The design research track option explores a particular theme for both the fall and spring semesters of the senior year. This theme changes each year, and is taught by a group of faculty members on a subject of their shared interest. For the fall semester, students enroll in a project preparation seminar, and for the spring semester, students take a studio—led by the same faculty—in which they develop their research and explorations, culminating in a final project.
Studio Track: The studio track option is studio intensive, with more architecture courses required in addition to a design studio each semester. Studio track students enroll in a structures course in the fall, and choose between an energy and environment or construction course in the spring.
Accreditation/Licensure

The BA degree is a preprofessional degree and provides the foundation for entry to a Master of Architecture program, the most widespread professional degree program in architecture in the United States. The BA degree can also be applied toward licensing requirements in the State of California. See the National Architectural Accrediting Board (NAAB) for more information on accreditation. See the California Architects Board and the National Council of Architectural Registration Boards (NCARB) for more information on licensing.

Admission to the Major

Students must declare one of the CED majors at the time of application to the college; however, current UC Berkeley students may apply to change into CED. Transfer applicants must complete two years worth of lower division coursework to be considered for admission to CED. For information regarding admission to the major for freshman, transfer students, and current students who wish to change majors or colleges, please see the College of Environmental Design (CED) page in this Guide, or the CED website.

Architecture Minor

The Architecture minor introduces students to the conceptual, technical, and design aspects of architecture. A letter grade of C- or higher is required in ENV DES 1 to declare the minor. To declare, students must submit the CED Request to Add Minor Form, available on the CED website. When completing the final requirements for the minor, submit the CED Minor Completion Form. Other minors offered by the Department of Architecture are listed below:

Other Minors Offered by the Department of Architecture

Environmental Design and Urbanism in Developing Countries (Minor)
History of the Built Environment (Minor)
Social and Cultural Factors in Environmental Design (Minor)
Sustainable Design (Minor)

Student Learning GoalsUndergraduate Student Learning Initiative (USLI)
The Undergraduate Student Learning Initiative (USLI) is a campuswide initiative to support departments in establishing educational goals and evaluation procedures for all undergraduate programs. As a result of the initiative, faculty and students have a shared understanding of the purpose of the major and what graduating seniors are expected to know or to be able to do at the end of their course of study. The initiative is in keeping with the fundamental principle at Berkeley that the evaluation of student achievement should be locally defined, discipline specific, and faculty-driven.
Department of Architecture Statement of Goals
The Underlying Goals of a Liberal Arts Undergraduate Education
In its recent curriculum discussions, the faculty strongly supports a liberal arts education for undergraduates that teaches students to develop their intellectual capacities: how to research topics independently, how to ask penetrating questions, how to analyze problems, how to construct arguments based on critical thinking, how to make well-founded judgments, how to identify issues of importance for the future. The intent of the department is that all courses are framed with this perspective. In addition to this goal, the department is introducing students to the discipline specific areas of knowledge that are needed by students who apply for graduate school in architecture.
The Discipline-Specific Knowledge of Architecture
The discipline of architecture covers a wide range of discipline-specific subject areas that are integrated in the process of design.
The goal of the undergraduate major is to make students familiar with and curious about engagement in and production of the built environment in historical, critical, technical, and social dimensions. The possibilities open to graduates in the major are broad, and this challenges the department to locate the terrain that is common to various aspects of the discipline as a formulation of the core lower division courses, and then to offer at the upper division a set of “streams” of study, each of which inspires and prepares students to pursue a future endeavor. As these future endeavors cover a wide range of possibilities, there are several ways to view the undergraduate major: as a liberal arts education through the lens of architecture, perhaps leading to another course of study; as preparation for work in the profession with only an undergraduate degree; and as preparation for follow-up study at the graduate level in the discipline of architecture. Acceptance into strong graduate architecture programs requires a high level of proficiency in the core areas of the curriculum. In recent debates on the undergraduate curriculum, the faculty decided that the undergraduate major should continue to provide courses appropriate for students on each of these paths.
The curriculum exposes students to five aspects of architecture and the broader field of environmental design:

The Language of Architecture
In essence, the language most particular to architecture is a graphic vocabulary that is the currency of exploration in the design studio. The mastery of this language, like the learning of any language, begins with vocabulary and grammar, and then moves on to the construction of meaning. This latter aspect is rigorously pursued in the design studio, and for those planning to go on to graduate study in architecture, a number of these upper level studios offer an increasingly complex set of design challenges.
In the Language of Architecture, students should learn to:

Understand the conventions of plan, section, elevation, and axonometric and their relationship to each other;
Understand and become proficient in hand drawings and the use of digital media in the production of these conventions;
Understand and become proficient in three or four digital programs that allow a facile exploration of design ideas;
Become proficient in the production of design iterations; and
Apply critical discussion to design solutions and representation.


The History and Theory of Architecture
Courses in history and theory are intended to familiarize students with the development of the built environment in both western and eastern traditions, and to introduce recent and current theories of local and global importance. The introductory surveys in architectural history test students to both recognize and classify architectural styles; these courses are complemented by others that focus on the intersection of history and theory, and for which the writing of papers is the primary means of evaluation.
In the History and Theory of Architecture, students should learn to:

Articulate the theoretical concepts within the design studio projects;
Understand the major periods and styles in architectural history;
Understand the modern period, and its current debates; and
Write critical papers comparing and contrasting both buildings and ideas.


The Humanistic Applications of Architecture
Many students enter this field of study in hopes of improving the conditions of the built environment as it relates to the daily life of individuals and communities. An emphasis in these aspects of the major can lead to graduate work in other disciplines, including environmental studies, law, global development and planning, and anthropology, or to a PhD program in architecture.
In the Humanistic Applications of Architecture, students should learn to:

Understand the roles and responsibilities of the environmental professions;
Understand the art and science of interpreting the social context of design;
Identify the major issues of environmental design in the national and global setting; and
Recognize the value of addressing sustainability at all levels of design.


The Science and Technology of Architecture
How buildings stand up, how they operate to distribute and control light and air, and the materials and connections with which they are made bring the understanding of the discipline from its paper representations of design and theory into the physical world. A set of core courses introduces students to the fundamentals of these areas, and a set of upper division seminars allows more in-depth explorations of aspects of each, including the testing of structural ideas through design, current attitudes and goals for a sustainable building culture, and construction practices particular to certain materials or cultures. 
In the Science and Technology of Architecture, student should learn to:

Evaluate building performance through modes of calculation;
Familiarize themselves with the major groups of construction systems;
Integrate these concepts into the design studio; and
Familiarize themselves with the major debates in the literature of these areas.


Research Methods
Students should become proficient in the processes of academic research, learning to:

Undertake library and on-line research and follow source threads to both books and periodicals;
Construct bibliographies to academic standards;
Document various methods of research; and
Understand taxonomies of knowledge and organize information.
